Welcome to Building Tic-Tac-Toe with React Native and TypeScript, where we are going to build a single
player tic tac toe game with an unbeatable bot and the realtime multiplayer game using a GraphQL API
that we are going to build using AWS Amplify.
My name is Ali and I will be instructing you throughout this course.
I've been working as a front-end web developer for over seven years and few years ago I started building
hybrid mobile apps using React Native.
During these years, I have contributed to building multiple large scale React Native applications.
In this case, we are going to use Expo, which is a tool that makes developing React Native applications
a lot easier, to create a tic tac toe game.
Creating tic tac toe might seem simple;
However, what we are going to learn is not just about the game.
You will also learn how to use TypeScript in a React Native application.
In addition to that, we are also going to create a bot for our single player game.
And this bot won't just play random moves, but it will be smart enough to be unbeatable.
Also, we are going to create a real-time multiplayer game using a GraphQL API that we will create
using an Amazon web service called Amplify.
We are also going to learn how to properly use Expo to send push notifications and how to monetize, build
and publish your app on Apple's App Store or Google Play store.
So let's take a quick look on how this course is structured.
Section 1 is an optional section for students without or with limited TypeScript knowledge.
We are going to have a very quick introduction to TypeScript and we are going to discuss things like
basic types, types, interfaces and generics.
In Section 2, we are going to discover the difference between Expo and vanilla React Native, and
then we are going to install Expo, create a new Expo project and run it on a physical device, Android
emulator and the iOS simulator. In Section 3, we are going to set up some tools that will be very helpful
in our workflow.
These tools include TypeScript itself, ESLint, Prettier and Husky.
In Section 4, we are going to do some general setup for our application, including things like loading fonts, creating
custom text component, setting up navigation and more.
In Section 5, we are going to build our single player game and this includes: the UI, the bot player,
adding sounds and haptics, creating a settings page to choose difficulty and other options and persisting
these settings on the phone using React context and AsyncStorage.
Section 6 will just be an introduction to AWS Amplify and some other AWS concepts like IAM.
We will also install Amplify and set it up in our project.
In Section 7, we are going to use AWS Cognito, which is a service that comes with Amplify and we are
going to use it to add authentication in our app.
This includes login, register, OTP confirmation, resend password, reset password, forgot password
and more.
Next, in Section 8, we are going to cover creating a GraphQL API using Amplify.
This API will be used for the multiplayer game, and we are going to create all the necessary database
models, GraphQL queries, mutations and subscriptions and also some lambda functions that we will
use in our multiplayer game.
After completing our API, we are going to move to Section 9 and start building our UI.
This includes listing games, paginating games, searching for players, starting a new game and handling
game updates in real time.
Section 10 would be entirely dedicated to sending push notifications with Expo.
Sending notifications may seem simple.
However, there are a lot of stuff that need to be handled that we will discover in this section.
Eventually, we will be able to send a notification to a player when he is invited to a new game.
In Section 11,
we will see how simple it is to add ads in your game using Google AdMob.
And finally, in Section 12, we will discover how smooth building and publishing your app with Expo
is.
We will build our apps for Android and iOS and publish our builds to the App Store and Play Store.
In order to be comfortable watching this course, you should have JavaScript knowledge.
TypeScript
knowledge is also preferable.
However, we are going to cover the basics in the first section.
React basic knowledge is also required.
So you should be familiar with functional components, hooks, context, state and other basic React
concepts.
This is also not a beginners React Native course.
So at least some basic React Native concepts are required.
So you should know things like what's a view in React Native, what's a touchable component, how to style
your views and other basic React Native concepts.
Also, basic GraphQL concepts are required so you should know what our queries, subscriptions and mutations,
how to write a graphical request and the difference between GraphQL and Rest API.
We are also going to use some Amazon Web Services so it's not required.
But if you're familiar with things like lambda function, DynamoDB it would just be an extra
However,
we are going to do everything from scratch.
A Mac OS machine is required only if you need to run your app on the iOS simulator or publish your app
to the App Store.
Other than that, you can follow the course with any other OS and any physical iOS or Android device.
For the multiplayer part of the course and AWS account is required.
You will have to enter your credit card information to create an account. However you are probably not going
to be charged just by watching the course.
You will get a free monthly usage for most AWS services and it's very unlikely to consume that free
usage just by following the course.
And finally, if you would like to publish your apps on the App Store or Play Store, you will have
to have an Apple developer account for iOS, which costs $99 per year and a Google
developer account for Android, which costs a one time fee of $25.
But of course, this is only if you would like to publish your apps and it's not going to be necessary
during development. So make sure to check the course description and also the free preview videos.
In the free preview videos will find a demo of the app that we are going to create to make sure
to check that out.
And I look forward to seeing you inside.